Documentation about load/save games and settings and migrations (#42)
godot-escoria/escoria-docs: advanced/load_save.rst

.. _load_save:

Game and settings load and save system
======================================

> Escoria comes with a complete Save and Load manager that takes care of saving a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Escoria comes with a complete Save and Load manager that takes care of the saving (and the loading) of a
```

player's game state so that it's possible to load a previously saved game.

It also allows saving and loading settings of the game. Both settings and

> savegames can also contain user-defined settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also allows for the saving and loading of game settings. Both settings and
save game files can optionally contain user-defined settings.
```

Author: Done

Loading and saving games
------------------------

> Escoria manages savegames as numbered slots. A savegame requires a slot number

Reviewer 2: This documentation refers to "slots", save_game refers to an "id" - these should be consistent.

Author: This is a code documentation change request. As discussed, we agreed on changing this concept to "slots" as it feels clearer, but we'll change this in another PR.

> Escoria manages savegames as numbered slots. A savegame requires a slot number

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Escoria manages save games as numbered slots. A save game requires a slot number
```

> to be used; if the given slot already has a savegame, it is possible to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to be used; if the given slot already has a save game, it is possible to
```

overwrite it. There is no limitation on the number of slots that can be used.
Saving a game is as simple as calling :doc:`ESCSaveManager.save_game()
</api/ESCSaveManager>` function.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can you please add an example here? Something like 
e.g. Calling save_game(1,"xyz") would save the game state into the file <directory>/saves/xyz_001.tres

Author: Done

Loading a game works the same way by providing a slot number to load the

> attached savegame. To load a game, simply call :doc:`ESCSaveManager.load_game()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
attached save game. To load a game, simply call :doc:`ESCSaveManager.load_game()
```

Author: Done

</api/ESCSaveManager>` function.

> 

Reviewer 2: Files will be loaded from location ...
In the event the file doesn't exist <???> will happen.

> Savegames hold multiple "header" data:

Reviewer 2: I would suggest this is moved to its own separate section with a note that this is additional background information and not something that the developer needs to manage. 
(If the developer does need to do something with this, that isn't clear).

Author: Done

> Savegames hold multiple "header" data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Save games hold multiple "header" data:
```

Author: Done

- Version of Escoria being used: this is used to manage migration of savegames

>   between Escoria versions. See `How to manage migrations`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Version of Escoria being used: this is used to manage the automated migration of save games.
  between Escoria versions. See `Managing migrations`_.
```

Author: Done

- Version of the game: this is equally used to manage migrations of savegames

>   between the versions of the game. See `How to manage migrations`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Version of the game: this is additional information used for the automated migration of save games
  between different versions of the game. See `Managing migrations`_.
```

Author: Done

- Name that describes the savegame: this can be either provided by the player

>   or managed by the game (and thus transparent for the player).

Reviewer 2: How does the player provide this?

Author: Added a precision that this can be done using a dedicated UI done by gamedev

> - Date: the date of creation of the savegame.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Date: the saved game's creation date.
```

Author: Done

> And of course, savegames contain the game data. These data are split in 3

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And of course, save games files contain the game data. This data is split into 3
```

dictionaries:

- ``main``: contains some internal information, such as the last visited scene

>   ID and the current scene the player is located in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ID, and the scene where the player is currently located.
```

> - ``globals``: all the global variables values at the moment of saving.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``globals``: the contents of all the global variables at the time of saving.
```

- ``objects``: all data about objects registered in Escoria. These data include
  the state, the position, the orientation, etc. Any object that the player
  never encountered in his game is not registered so it will be set at its

>   default value on loading.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``objects``: data about all objects registered in Escoria. This data includes
  the object's state, position, orientation, etc. Any object that the player
  has yet to encounter in the game is not registered, so these objects will have 
  their values set to their default settings on loading.
```

Reviewer: Would suggest a wording update to the suggestion above:

"Objects in the game that the player has yet to encounter are not registered, and so ``objects`` will be set to its default value on loading."

...I'm assuming that the "it" in the sentence is referring to ``objects``.

Reviewer 2: Reworded to fold in your suggestion @BHSDuncan

> - ``custom_data``: a Dictionary structure containing custom data to be saved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``custom_data``: a dictionary containing custom data to be saved.
```

>   See `Save custom data in savegames and settings`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  See `Saving custom data in save game and settings files`_.
```

Loading and saving settings
---------------------------

> 

Reviewer 2: There should be some text indicating when the developer requires this. Is this only for custom settings? Will the game break if you haven't set up settings to save or will defaults get applied every time you run the game? Etc

Author: Done

> Settings file are saved in a :doc:`ESCSaveSettings</api/ESCSaveSettings>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Settings files are stored in a :doc:`ESCSaveSettings</api/ESCSaveSettings>` resource.
```

resource file.

> Default data included in settings files are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default data included in the settings file are:
```

Reviewer: Data is plural and is used as such throughout the docs. Suggest:

"The default data included in the settings files are:"

Reviewer 2: Good catch @BHSDuncan - updated the suggestion

> - ``text_lang``: language of displayed text in the game.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``text_lang``: the language of the text displayed in the game.
```

> - ``voice_lang``: speech language.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``voice_lang``: the speech language.
```

> - ``speech_enabled``: boolean value indicating whether speech is enabled in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``speech_enabled``: a boolean value indicating whether audio speech is enabled in the
```

  game.

> - ``master_volume``: global volume (value between 0 and 100).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``master_volume``: the global volume value (a value between 0 and 100).
```

> - ``music_volume``: volume of the music (between 0 and 100).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``music_volume``: the volume of the music (a value between 0 and 100).
```

- ``sfx_volume``: volume of sound effects, ie. all sounds that are not music

>   nor speech (value between 0 and 100).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``sfx_volume``: the  sound effects volume, ie. all sounds that are not music
  or speech (a value between 0 and 100).
```

> - ``speech_volume``: volume of speech (value between 0 and 100)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``speech_volume``: the speech volume (a value between 0 and 100)
```

> - ``fullscreen``: boolean value indicating whether the game is fullscreen or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``fullscreen``: a boolean value indicating whether the game is fullscreen or
```

  not.

> - ``skip_dialog``: boolean value indicating whether dialogs skipping is allowed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``skip_dialog``: a boolean value indicating whether dialogue skipping is allowed
```

Reviewer: Raises a good point: We should decide on "dialog" or "dialogue" and use it consistently throughout all the docs.

  or not.

> - ``custom_settings``: a Dictionary structure containing custom data to be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``custom_settings``: a dictionary containing any custom data to be
```

  saved. For example, the screen resolution could be added in this field. See

>   `Save custom data in savegames and settings`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `Saving custom data in save game and settings files`_.
```

> Save custom data in savegames and settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Saving custom data in save game and settings files
```

------------------------------------------

As indicated above, both savegames and settings provide a specific field

> allowing the game developer to add custom data to be saved in these files. This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As indicated above, both save game and settings files provide a specific field
allowing the game developer to add custom data to these files. This
```

section describes how to use these fields.

> In savegames

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adding custom data to save game files
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`ESCSaveGame </api/ESCSaveSettings>` data structure provides a

> dictionary variable ``custom_data`` allowing saving any data in it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dictionary variable ``custom_data`` which custom data can be added to.
```

This feature comes with a ``get_custom_data()`` function that needs to be
implemented in the ``game.gd`` script of the game (extending ``ESCGame``). This
function must return a Dictionary value that contains the custom data to be

> saved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature requires a ``get_custom_data()`` function to be
implemented in the ``game.gd`` script of the game (extending ``ESCGame``). This
function must return a dictionary value that contains the custom data to be
saved.
```

When the ``ESCSaveManager.save_game()`` function is called,
``ESCGame.get_custom_data()`` function is automatically called and the returned

> Dictionary is then saved in the ``custom_data`` field of the savegame.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the ``ESCSaveManager.save_game()`` function is called, the
``ESCGame.get_custom_data()`` function is automatically called and the returned
dictionary is then saved in the ``custom_data`` field of the save game file.
```

> In settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adding custom data to settings files
```

~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`ESCSaveSettings </api/ESCSaveSettings>` data structure contains a

> Dictionary variable ``custom_settings`` allowing saving any data in it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :doc:`ESCSaveSettings </api/ESCSaveSettings>` data structure contains a
dictionary variable ``custom_settings`` where the developer can add any data they would like 
to save.
```

To save the custom settings, it is simply required to set the values to save,
directly in ``escoria.settings.custom_settings`` Dictionary value. The
``escoria.settings`` parameter is directly saved as-is when the

> ``ESCSaveManager.save_settings()`` function is called to save the settings.

Reviewer 2: Remove this as it's a repeat of the above.

This feature also comes with a ``apply_custom_settings()`` function that needs
to be implemented in the ``game.gd`` script of the game (extending
``ESCGame``). This function is automatically called by the
``escoria.apply_settings()`` function, which is called right after the settings

> file is loaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make use of this feature, an ``apply_custom_settings()`` function needs
to be implemented in the ``game.gd`` script of the game (extending
``ESCGame``). This function is automatically called by the
``escoria.apply_settings()`` function when the game starts, which is called 
right after the settings file is loaded.
```
(I'm assuming it's called when the game starts)

Reviewer: "...an ``apply_custom_settings()``"

Reviewer 2: Corrected

> How to manage migrations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Managing migrations
```

------------------------

With new versions of Escoria, certain built-in ESC variables may change their
name. For this reason, upgrading the Escoria version could break older versions
of a savegame. In the same way, along the development of the game, an ESC
variable or item id may change. It is then necessary to migrate old savegames

> that contain old names to replace them with new names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With new versions of Escoria, certain built-in ESC variables may change their
name. For this reason, upgrading the Escoria version could break older versions
of a save game. In the same way, during the development of the game, an ESC
variable or item id may change. It is then necessary to migrate old savegames
that contain the old names, replacing them with the new ones.
```

Upon a savegame loading, Escoria automatically manages migrations between

> Escoria versions as well as migrations between game versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a save game file is loaded, Escoria will automatically initiate the migration between both 
Escoria and game versions.
```

Escoria migrations are automatically managed. This migration process is only
described for exhaustivity purpose. Game versions migrations are obviously

> managed by the game developer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While Escoria migrations are automatically managed, migrations between Game versions 
must be managed by the game developer. See `Game version migration`_ for details.
```

Escoria migration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This section of the documentation is for informational purposes only. No developer
interaction is required.

```

At savegame loading, Escoria automatically performs a version check: if the
Escoria version of the savegame is older than current Escoria version used by
the game, the :doc:`ESCMigrationManager.migrate() </api/ESCMigrationManager>`
function is automatically called to convert the savegame to newer Escoria

> version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the loading of a save game, Escoria automatically performs a version check: if the
Escoria version listed in the save game file is older than the current Escoria version used by
the game, the :doc:`ESCMigrationManager.migrate() </api/ESCMigrationManager>`
function is automatically called to convert the save game file to match the newer Escoria
version.
```

Game version migration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The game must have a defined version set in Project Settings

Reviewer 2: It's not clear if the defined version is necessary for all games, or just ones that will support version migration.

Reviewer: @balloonpopper @StraToN is this particular issue resolved?

Reviewer 2: It's still outstanding as far as I'm aware.

Author: The line was changed to:
```
To make use of automated version migration, the game must have a version
defined in Godot's Project Settings under ``escoria/main/game_version``.
```

``escoria/main/game_version``. This game version number is saved in the

> savegame file. A version follows a ``x.y.z`` pattern where:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make use of automated version migration, the game must have a version defined 
in Godot's Project Settings under 
``escoria/main/game_version``. This game version number is saved in the
save game file. The version follows a ``x.y.z`` pattern where:
```

- ``x`` is the *major* version number
- ``y`` is the *minor* version number

> - ``z`` is the *patch* version number

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``x`` is the *major* version number.
- ``y`` is the *minor* version number.
- ``z`` is the *patch* version number.
```

> Let's suppose that a savegame was created with game version ``1.0.0`` and is
> loaded in game version ``1.1.0``. Upon loading a ``1.0.0`` savegame, Escoria
> will migrate it to every intermediar version before migrating it to ``1.1.0``
> version. If required, all versions requiring a migration must have a migration
> script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's suppose that a save game file was created using game version ``1.0.0`` and is
then loaded in game version ``1.1.0``. Upon loading the ``1.0.0`` savegame, Escoria
will migrate it through every intermediary version (if any) before migrating it to the 
``1.1.0`` version. Where migrations are required, all versions requiring a migration 
must have an associated migration script.
```

> All game migration scripts are located in a given folder that Escoria will look
> into for migration scripts. This folder is set in Projects Settings, under
> ``escoria/main/game_migration_path``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All game migration scripts must be located in a migration scripts folder. 
This folder is configured in Godot's Projects Settings, under
``escoria/main/game_migration_path``.
```

A migration script filename must follow the version number pattern:
``x.y.z.gd``.

> Any migration script must extend :doc:`ESCMigration </api/ESCMigration>` class
> and implement the ``migrate()`` function. This function modifies the savegame
> content to move the former variables to the newer ones. To do so, ``self``
> object contains a member ``_savegame`` that allows the access to the savegame
> data described in `Loading and saving games`_ section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any migration script must extend the :doc:`ESCMigration </api/ESCMigration>` class
and implement the ``migrate()`` function. This function modifies the save game
content to move the former variables to the newer ones. To do so, the ``self``
object contains a member ``_savegame`` that allows access to the save game
data described in the `Loading and saving games`_ section.
```

.. _load_save:

Game and settings load and save system
======================================

Escoria comes with a complete Save and Load manager that takes care of saving a
player's game state so that it's possible to load a previously saved game.

It also allows for the saving and loading of game settings. Both settings and
save game files can optionally contain user-defined settings.

Loading and saving games
------------------------

> Escoria manages save games as numbered slots. A save game requires a slot
> number to be used; if the given slot already has a save game, it is possible to
> overwrite it. There is no limitation on the number of slots that can be used.
> Saving a game is as simple as calling :doc:`ESCSaveManager.save_game()
> </api/ESCSaveManager>` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Escoria manages save games using numbered slots. A save game slot is required to 
be provided as part of the save game function call.  If the given slot already has a 
save game, that saved game will be overwritten. The 
:doc:`ESCSaveManager.load_game() </api/ESCSaveManager>` function can be used 
to give the player the opportunity to choose whether to overwrite the existing save 
game or not. 

There is no limitation on the number of save slots that can be used.

Saving a game is as simple as calling the :doc:`ESCSaveManager.save_game()
</api/ESCSaveManager>` function.

Files are saved to the folder specified in the Godot's Project Settings under 
``escoria/main/game_version``. If not changed, the default is '<game folder>/saves'.
```

> Loading a game works the same way by providing a slot number to load the
> attached save game. To load a game, simply call
> :doc:`ESCSaveManager.load_game() </api/ESCSaveManager>` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Loading a game works the same way, using a slot number to load the
relevant save game. To load a game, simply call
:doc:`ESCSaveManager.load_game() </api/ESCSaveManager>` function.

Attempting to load a saved game that doesn't exist will result in an error
message being displayed ("Save file <id> doesn't exist").

Files are loaded from the folder specified in the Godot's Project Settings under 
``escoria/main/game_version``. If not changed, the default is '<game folder>/saves'.
```

save game files can optionally contain user-defined settings.

Loading and saving games
------------------------

Escoria manages save games using numbered slots. A save game slot is required
to be provided as part of the save game function call.  If the given slot
already has a save game, that saved game will be overwritten. The
:doc:`ESCSaveManager.load_game() </api/ESCSaveManager>` function can be used to
give the player the opportunity to choose whether to overwrite the existing
save game or not.

There is no limitation on the number of save slots that can be used.

Saving a game is as simple as calling the :doc:`ESCSaveManager.save_game()
</api/ESCSaveManager>` function.

Files are saved to the folder specified in the Godot's Project Settings under
``escoria/main/savegames_path``. If not changed, the default is '<game
folder>/saves'.

Loading a game works the same way, using a slot number to load the
relevant save game. To load a game, simply call
:doc:`ESCSaveManager.load_game() </api/ESCSaveManager>` function.

Attempting to load a saved game that doesn't exist will result in an error
message being displayed ("Save file <id> doesn't exist").

> Files are loaded from the folder specified in the Godot's Project Settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Files are loaded from the folder specified in Godot's Project Settings
```

under ``escoria/main/savegames_path``. If not changed, the default is '<game

> folder>/saves'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
under ``escoria/main/savegames_path``. The default is '<game folder>/saves'.
```

.. code-block:: gdscript

  var slot: int = 1
  var savename: String: "Blocked in room before puzzle"

  # This will save the game in the file /saves/save_001.tres
  escoria.save_manager.save_game(slot, savename)

Loading and saving settings
---------------------------

Game settings are loaded when the game is run. If no settings file exists, a
new one is created with default values.

It is not required to manage settings saving and loading if the player is not

> supposed to change one of them. Otherwise, settings should be saved. It is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supposed to change any of them. Otherwise, settings should be saved. It is the
```

duty of the game developer to manage this in a settings UI included in the game
menus.

Settings files are stored in a :doc:`ESCSaveSettings</api/ESCSaveSettings>`
resource file.

The following settings are stored in the settings file:

- ``text_lang``: the language of the text displayed in the game.

- ``voice_lang``: the speech language.

- ``speech_enabled``: a boolean value indicating whether audio speech is
  enabled in the game.

- ``master_volume``: the global volume value (a value between 0 and 100).

- ``music_volume``: the volume of the music (a value between 0 and 100).

- ``sfx_volume``: the  sound effects volume, ie. all sounds that are not music
  or speech (a value between 0 and 100).

- ``speech_volume``: the speech volume (a value between 0 and 100)

> - ``fullscreen``: a boolean value indicating whether the game is fullscreen or
>   not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``fullscreen``: a boolean value indicating whether the game is fullscreen.
```

- ``skip_dialog``: a boolean value indicating whether dialogue skipping is

>   allowed or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  allowed.
```

- ``custom_settings``: a dictionary containing any custom data to be saved. For
  example, the screen resolution could be added in this field. See `Saving
  custom data in save game and settings files`_.

Saving custom data in save game and settings files
--------------------------------------------------

As indicated above, both save game and settings files provide a specific field
allowing the game developer to add custom data to these files. This section
describes how to use these fields.

Adding custom data to save game files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`ESCSaveGame </api/ESCSaveSettings>` data structure provides a
dictionary variable ``custom_data`` which custom data can be added to.

This feature requires a ``get_custom_data()`` function to be implemented in the
``game.gd`` script of the game (extending ``ESCGame``). This function must
return a dictionary value that contains the custom data to be saved.

When the ``ESCSaveManager.save_game()`` function is called, the
``ESCGame.get_custom_data()`` function is automatically called and the returned
dictionary is then saved in the ``custom_data`` field of the save game file.

> Adding custom data to settings files

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Adding custom data to settings files
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`ESCSaveSettings </api/ESCSaveSettings>` data structure contains a
dictionary variable ``custom_settings`` where the developer can add any data
they would like to save.

> To save the custom settings, it is simply required to set the values to save,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To save the custom settings, it is simply required to set the values to save
```

.. _load_save:

Game and settings load and save system
======================================

Escoria comes with a complete Save and Load manager that takes care of saving a
player's game state so that it's possible to load a previously saved game.

It also allows for the saving and loading of game settings. Both settings and
save game files can optionally contain user-defined settings.

Loading and saving games
------------------------

Escoria manages save games using numbered slots. A save game slot is required
to be provided as part of the save game function call.  If the given slot
already has a save game, that saved game will be overwritten. The
:doc:`ESCSaveManager.load_game() </api/ESCSaveManager>` function can be used to
give the player the opportunity to choose whether to overwrite the existing
save game or not.

There is no limitation on the number of save slots that can be used.

Saving a game is as simple as calling the :doc:`ESCSaveManager.save_game()
</api/ESCSaveManager>` function.

Files are saved to the folder specified in the Godot's Project Settings under

> ``escoria/main/game_version``. If not changed, the default is '<game

Reviewer 3: Game version? I believe this is wrong, right?

Reviewer 2: Submitted a suggested change for @StraToN to approve that fixes this.

> ``escoria/main/game_version``. If not changed, the default is '<game

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``escoria/main/savegames_path``. If not changed, the default is '<game
```

folder>/saves'.

Loading a game works the same way, using a slot number to load the
relevant save game. To load a game, simply call
:doc:`ESCSaveManager.load_game() </api/ESCSaveManager>` function.

Attempting to load a saved game that doesn't exist will result in an error
message being displayed ("Save file <id> doesn't exist").

Files are loaded from the folder specified in the Godot's Project Settings

> under ``escoria/main/game_version``. If not changed, the default is '<game

Reviewer 3: Same here. Game_version isn't the right setting.

Reviewer 2: Submitted a suggested change for @StraToN to approve that fixes this.

> under ``escoria/main/game_version``. If not changed, the default is '<game

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
under ``escoria/main/savegames_path``. If not changed, the default is '<game
```

Reviewer 3: Hm. The "settings key" actually is `escoria/main/savegames_path`. If we want to reference to what the user sees, we should write it as "Escoria/Main/Savegames Path" (without the code formatting). But that would mean rewriting the other occurences in the docs as well.

folder>/saves'.

.. code-block:: gdscript

  var slot: int = 1
  var savename: String: "Blocked in room before puzzle"

  # This will save the game in the file /saves/save_001.tres
  escoria.save_manager.save_game(slot, savename)

Loading and saving settings
---------------------------

Game settings are loaded when the game is run. If no settings file exists, a
new one is created with default values.

It is not required to manage settings saving and loading if the player is not
supposed to change one of them. Otherwise, settings should be saved. It is the
duty of the game developer to manage this in a settings UI included in the game
menus.

Settings files are stored in a :doc:`ESCSaveSettings</api/ESCSaveSettings>`
resource. resource file.

> The default data included in the settings file are:

Reviewer 3: I'd rather use something like "The following settings are stored:"

Reviewer 2: Submitted a suggested change for @StraToN to approve that fixes this.

> Settings files are stored in a :doc:`ESCSaveSettings</api/ESCSaveSettings>`
> resource. resource file.
> 
> The default data included in the settings file are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Settings files are stored in a :doc:`ESCSaveSettings</api/ESCSaveSettings>`
resource file.

The following settings are stored in the settings file:
```

  allowed or not.

- ``custom_settings``: a dictionary containing any custom data to be saved. For
  example, the screen resolution could be added in this field. See `Saving
  custom data in save game and settings files`_.

Saving custom data in save game and settings files
--------------------------------------------------

As indicated above, both save game and settings files provide a specific field
allowing the game developer to add custom data to these files. This section
describes how to use these fields.

Adding custom data to save game files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`ESCSaveGame </api/ESCSaveSettings>` data structure provides a
dictionary variable ``custom_data`` which custom data can be added to.

This feature requires a ``get_custom_data()`` function to be implemented in the
``game.gd`` script of the game (extending ``ESCGame``). This function must
return a dictionary value that contains the custom data to be saved.

When the ``ESCSaveManager.save_game()`` function is called, the
``ESCGame.get_custom_data()`` function is automatically called and the returned
dictionary is then saved in the ``custom_data`` field of the save game file.

> 

Reviewer 3: Please remove the extra newline here.

Reviewer 2: Submitted a suggested change for @StraToN to approve that fixes this.

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Adding custom data to settings files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`ESCSaveSettings </api/ESCSaveSettings>` data structure contains a
dictionary variable ``custom_settings`` where the developer can add any data
they would like to save.

To save the custom settings, it is simply required to set the values to save,

> directly in ``escoria.settings.custom_settings`` Dictionary value. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directly in the ``escoria.settings.custom_settings`` Dictionary value. The
```

``escoria.settings`` parameter is directly saved as-is when the
``ESCSaveManager.save_settings()`` function is called to save the settings.

To make use of this feature, an ``apply_custom_settings()`` function needs to
be implemented in the ``game.gd`` script of the game (extending ``ESCGame``).
This function is automatically called by the ``escoria.apply_settings()``
function when the game starts, which is called right after the settings file is
loaded.

Managing migrations
-------------------

> With new versions of Escoria, certain built-in ESC variables may change their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With newer versions of Escoria, certain built-in ESC variables may change their
```

All game migration scripts must be located in a migration scripts folder. This
folder is configured in Godot's Projects Settings, under
``escoria/main/game_migration_path``.

A migration script filename must follow the version number pattern:
``x.y.z.gd``.

Any migration script must extend the :doc:`ESCMigration </api/ESCMigration>`
class and implement the ``migrate()`` function. This function modifies the save
game content to move the former variables to the newer ones. To do so, the
``self`` object contains a member ``_savegame`` that allows access to the save
game data described in the `Loading and saving games`_ section.

.. code-block:: gdscript

    # File 1.1.0.gd # Migrate to version 1.1.0 of the game. # This version
    changes the name of the "tets" global to "test".

    extends ESCMigration

    function migrate():
        # Copy the "tets" global value into the "test" global value.
        self._savegame.globals["test"] = self._savegame.globals["tets"]

        # Remove the now useless global "tets"
        self._savegame.globals.erase("tets")

Save game data
--------------

This section of the documentation is for informational purposes only.

> Save games hold multiple data that is listed and explained here for a better

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save games hold data that are listed and explained here for a better
```

understanding.

Header data
~~~~~~~~~~~

> Save games hold multiple "header" data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save games hold "header" data:
```

- Version of Escoria being used: this is used to manage the automated migration

>   of save games. between Escoria versions. See `Managing migrations`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  of save games between Escoria versions. See `Managing migrations`_.
```

- Version of the game: this is additional information used for the automated
  migration of save games between different versions of the game. See `Managing
  migrations`_.

> - Name that describes the savegame: this can be either provided by the player

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Name that describes the savegame: This can be either provided by the player
```

>   or managed by the game (and thus transparent for the player).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  or managed by the game (and thus transparent to the player).
```

- Date: the saved game's creation date.

Game data
~~~~~~~~~

> This data is split into 3 dictionaries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These data are split into 3 dictionaries:
```

> - ``main``: contains some internal information, such as the last visited scene

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``main``: contains internal information such as the last visited scene
```

  ID, and the scene where the player is currently located.

- ``globals``: the contents of all the global variables at the time of saving.

> - ``objects``: data about all objects registered in Escoria. This data includes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``objects``: data about all objects registered in Escoria. These data include
```
